journal/week2.md, before:

# Week 2 — Distributed Tracing

## Homework Challenges
This is best week in terms of learning lot of new tools and trying out 
1. Distributing Tracing - 
   - Honeycomb - Spans and ability to capture custom attributes and build a Dashboard for observability
   - X-Ray - Instrumenting with X-Ray and able to create sub-segments with metadata and annotations
2. Error Tracing - 
   - Rollbar - Ability to capture errors occuring in the application.
3. CloudWatch Logs -
   - Logging details of what's happening in the application  



Details of Homework and Tasks attempted this week -   
1. **Honeycomb - Instrumentation to adding more custom attributes**  
    This was a new tool for me but found it most convinient tool w.r.t. Distributed Tracing. It's dead simple :)

    Created Spans and multiple sub-spans to trace the route of a request. Example below is with creation of 2 spans -
    ![Spans](../_docs/assets/week-2/honeycomb/1-spans.png)
    ![Multiple Spans](../_docs/assets/week-2/honeycomb/2-multiple-spans.png)

    For adding extra spans with custom attributes, I selected "Create Activity" action wherein, logged-in User could add posts which intiates "Create Activity" action/api in the background.
    ```
    now = datetime.now(timezone.utc).astimezone()
    # Adding a extra attributes to current span
    span = trace.get_current_span()
    span.set_attribute("app.now", now.isoformat())

    span.set_attribute("app.user_handle", user_handle)

    ```
    ![Traces for Create Activity](../_docs/assets/week-2/honeycomb/4-trace-for-create-activity.png)

    ![Custome Attributes](../_docs/assets/week-2/honeycomb/3-trace-with-custom-attributes.png)

    In addition to creating and saving the query, there as a option to create a Dashboard and add query into it for better observability.
    As we don't have database integration as of now I intentionally added delay with sleep command (while Creating Activity in create_activity.py file)
    ```
    # Generate a random sleep time between 50 and 500 milliseconds to replicate delay scenario
    sleep_time = random.randint(50, 500) / 1000
    time.sleep(sleep_time)
    ```
    ![Dashboard with Observability](../_docs/assets/week-2/honeycomb/5-dashboard-monitor-observability.png)
    ![Query for Latency Tracking](../_docs/assets/week-2/honeycomb/6-query-latency-by-user-handle.png)

2. **X-Ray - Instrumentation to adding subsegments with metadata and annotations**  

    Wrapped the block for sub-segment instrumentation -
    ![Explicit Delay in Code](../_docs/assets/week-2/x-ray/0-delay-added-in-code-sleep.png)
    Generated traces -
    ![Trackes](../_docs/assets/week-2/x-ray/1-traces.png)
    Able to use subsegment by adding metadata and annotations (which could be useful to write to query against it)
    ![Subsegments with Metadata](../_docs/assets/week-2/x-ray/2-traces-subsegment-with-metadata-annotations.png)

3. **CloudWatch Logs**  

    ![Log Streams](../_docs/assets/week-2/cloudwatch-logs/1-log-streams.png)
    ![Logs](../_docs/assets/week-2/cloudwatch-logs/2-logs.png)

I already have a account in DockerHub. Tagged and Pushed the backed-flask image into DockerHub

    ```
    docker build -t sameerkm/backend-flask-service:1.0 .
    docker push sameerkm/backend-flask-service:1.0
    ```
4. **Rollbar - Error Tracking**  

    ![Code - Report Error](../_docs/assets/week-2/rollbar/1-rollbar-reporterrors.png)
    ![Errors Tracked](../_docs/assets/week-2/rollbar/2-error-tracked-in-rollbar.png)

To complete this task, I lauched an EC2 instance (t2.micro), attached a Security Group (with Inbound Rule allowed from source '0.0.0.0/0'). As I wanted Docker pre-installed in the lauched EC2 instance, I added the instructions in the user-data.  
User Data Code - 
    ```
    #! /bin/sh
    yum update -y
    amazon-linux-extras install docker
    service docker start
    usermod -a -G docker ec2-user
    chkconfig docker on
    ```  
    Commands to pull Docker image, Run the Container
    ```
    [ec2-user@ip-172-31-55-147 ~]$ docker pull httpd
    Using default tag: latest
    latest: Pulling from library/httpd
    bb263680fed1: Pull complete 
    9e8776e4b876: Pull complete 
    f506d7aab652: Pull complete 
    05289ee4f284: Pull complete 
    b7f64f2f8747: Pull complete 
    Digest: sha256:db2d897cae2ad67b33435c1a5b0d6b6465137661ea7c01a5e95155f0159e1bcf
    Status: Downloaded newer image for httpd:latest
    docker.io/library/httpd:latest
    [ec2-user@ip-172-31-55-147 ~]$ docker images
    REPOSITORY   TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED       SIZE
    httpd        latest    3a4ea134cf8e   12 days ago   145MB
    [ec2-user@ip-172-31-55-147 ~]$ docker run -d -p 80:80 --name httpd-container httpd
    5b75e76c9d15924ec58d42287b7f232c7d1b477fc5fffc199aa65be48978bffc
    [ec2-user@ip-172-31-55-147 ~]$ curl http://localhost:80
    <html><body><h1>It works!</h1></body></html>
    [ec2-user@ip-172-31-55-147 ~]$ 
    ```
    Able to access the service from Browser  
    ![Site accessible in browser](../_docs/assets/week-1/docker-ec2-site-browser.png)
5. **Implement a healthcheck in the V3 Docker compose file**  
For this challenge, I updated the docker-compose.yml with 'healthcheck' block
    ```
    healthcheck:
    test: curl --fail http://localhost:4567/api/activities/home || exit 1
    interval: 60s
    retries: 5
    start_period: 60s
    timeout: 10s
    ``` 
    For this to work 'curl' needs to be installed in the 'backed-flash' container which can be installed by adding the following command
    ```
    RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y curl
    ```

Commit message:

Added journal for CloudWatch logs

journal/week2.md, after:

# Week 2 — Distributed Tracing

## Homework Challenges
This is best week in terms of learning lot of new tools and trying out 
1. Distributing Tracing - 
   - Honeycomb - Spans and ability to capture custom attributes and build a Dashboard for observability
   - X-Ray - Instrumenting with X-Ray and able to create sub-segments with metadata and annotations
2. Error Tracing - 
   - Rollbar - Ability to capture errors occuring in the application.
3. CloudWatch Logs -
   - Logging details of what's happening in the application  



Details of Homework and Tasks attempted this week -   
1. **Honeycomb - Instrumentation to adding more custom attributes**  
    This was a new tool for me but found it most convinient tool w.r.t. Distributed Tracing. It's dead simple :)

    Created Spans and multiple sub-spans to trace the route of a request. Example below is with creation of 2 spans -
    ![Spans](../_docs/assets/week-2/honeycomb/1-spans.png)
    ![Multiple Spans](../_docs/assets/week-2/honeycomb/2-multiple-spans.png)

    For adding extra spans with custom attributes, I selected "Create Activity" action wherein, logged-in User could add posts which intiates "Create Activity" action/api in the background.
    ```
    now = datetime.now(timezone.utc).astimezone()
    # Adding a extra attributes to current span
    span = trace.get_current_span()
    span.set_attribute("app.now", now.isoformat())

    span.set_attribute("app.user_handle", user_handle)

    ```
    ![Traces for Create Activity](../_docs/assets/week-2/honeycomb/4-trace-for-create-activity.png)

    ![Custome Attributes](../_docs/assets/week-2/honeycomb/3-trace-with-custom-attributes.png)

    In addition to creating and saving the query, there as a option to create a Dashboard and add query into it for better observability.
    As we don't have database integration as of now I intentionally added delay with sleep command (while Creating Activity in create_activity.py file)
    ```
    # Generate a random sleep time between 50 and 500 milliseconds to replicate delay scenario
    sleep_time = random.randint(50, 500) / 1000
    time.sleep(sleep_time)
    ```
    ![Dashboard with Observability](../_docs/assets/week-2/honeycomb/5-dashboard-monitor-observability.png)
    ![Query for Latency Tracking](../_docs/assets/week-2/honeycomb/6-query-latency-by-user-handle.png)

2. **X-Ray - Instrumentation to adding subsegments with metadata and annotations**  

    Wrapped the block for sub-segment instrumentation -
    ![Explicit Delay in Code](../_docs/assets/week-2/x-ray/0-delay-added-in-code-sleep.png)
    Generated traces -
    ![Trackes](../_docs/assets/week-2/x-ray/1-traces.png)
    Able to use subsegment by adding metadata and annotations (which could be useful to write to query against it)
    ![Subsegments with Metadata](../_docs/assets/week-2/x-ray/2-traces-subsegment-with-metadata-annotations.png)

3. **CloudWatch Logs**  
    Added logs in the code to be captured in CloudWatch logs.
    ![Log Streams](../_docs/assets/week-2/cloudwatch-logs/1-log-streams.png)

    ![Logs](../_docs/assets/week-2/cloudwatch-logs/2-logs.png)

4. **Rollbar - Error Tracking**  

    ![Code - Report Error](../_docs/assets/week-2/rollbar/1-rollbar-reporterrors.png)
    ![Errors Tracked](../_docs/assets/week-2/rollbar/2-error-tracked-in-rollbar.png)

To complete this task, I lauched an EC2 instance (t2.micro), attached a Security Group (with Inbound Rule allowed from source '0.0.0.0/0'). As I wanted Docker pre-installed in the lauched EC2 instance, I added the instructions in the user-data.  
User Data Code - 
    ```
    #! /bin/sh
    yum update -y
    amazon-linux-extras install docker
    service docker start
    usermod -a -G docker ec2-user
    chkconfig docker on
    ```  
    Commands to pull Docker image, Run the Container
    ```
    [ec2-user@ip-172-31-55-147 ~]$ docker pull httpd
    Using default tag: latest
    latest: Pulling from library/httpd
    bb263680fed1: Pull complete 
    9e8776e4b876: Pull complete 
    f506d7aab652: Pull complete 
    05289ee4f284: Pull complete 
    b7f64f2f8747: Pull complete 
    Digest: sha256:db2d897cae2ad67b33435c1a5b0d6b6465137661ea7c01a5e95155f0159e1bcf
    Status: Downloaded newer image for httpd:latest
    docker.io/library/httpd:latest
    [ec2-user@ip-172-31-55-147 ~]$ docker images
    REPOSITORY   TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED       SIZE
    httpd        latest    3a4ea134cf8e   12 days ago   145MB
    [ec2-user@ip-172-31-55-147 ~]$ docker run -d -p 80:80 --name httpd-container httpd
    5b75e76c9d15924ec58d42287b7f232c7d1b477fc5fffc199aa65be48978bffc
    [ec2-user@ip-172-31-55-147 ~]$ curl http://localhost:80
    <html><body><h1>It works!</h1></body></html>
    [ec2-user@ip-172-31-55-147 ~]$ 
    ```
    Able to access the service from Browser  
    ![Site accessible in browser](../_docs/assets/week-1/docker-ec2-site-browser.png)
5. **Implement a healthcheck in the V3 Docker compose file**  
For this challenge, I updated the docker-compose.yml with 'healthcheck' block
    ```
    healthcheck:
    test: curl --fail http://localhost:4567/api/activities/home || exit 1
    interval: 60s
    retries: 5
    start_period: 60s
    timeout: 10s
    ``` 
    For this to work 'curl' needs to be installed in the 'backed-flash' container which can be installed by adding the following command
    ```
    RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y curl
    ```
